Babylon’s Fall Review: Falling Short – GameSkinny Skip to content News Reviews Tips Culture Column More Search Light Mode Dark Mode Expand Menu Close Menu Login Login account Account Logout Clear Search Cancel Light Mode Dark Mode News Reviews Tips Culture Column Guides Expand Guides Minecraft Seeds Minecraft Guides Fallout Fortnite Guides Roblox Guides Codes More Expand More About Us Contact Us Terms of Service Privacy Policy Light Mode Dark Mode rss instagram twitter facebook youtube Babylon's Fall is a baffling game that lacks any distinct vision, both in terms of gameplay and artistic design. Category: Reviews Babylon’s Fall Review: Falling Short Babylon's Fall is a baffling game that lacks any distinct vision, both in terms of gameplay and artistic design. Hayes Madsen | Published: Mar 11, 2022 01:59 am 0 Platinum Games is a studio with a strong pedigree, their name almost a seal of quality for action games. Unfortunately, Babylon’s Fall is proof that even the best studios can fall victim to troubled development, and it’s easily one of the worst games Platinum and Square Enix have released in years. Recommended Videos At its core, Babylon’s Fall feels like a live service cash grab that lacks any cohesive vision. Put up against Platinum’s previous blazingly-fast combat systems, Babylon’s Fall feels sluggish and unresponsive in comparison. It’s also easy to feel overwhelmed with the torrent of loot, currencies, battle points, and more thrown at you at any given moment. There’s the briefest glimpse of something promising here, but it quickly gets buried under a mountain of tedium and tacked on live service elements. Babylon’s Fall Review: Falling Short Babylon’s Fall opens with your custom character waking up on a ship, as it docks in the grand city of Babylon. You and a handful of others are “conscripted prisoners,” forced to use an implanted weapon known as a Gideon Coffin to explore the enigmatic Tower of Babil. It’s an interesting premise, and there’s a lot the story could do thematically, especially considering your character is essentially indentured against their will. Unfortunately, the game never goes anywhere interesting; the narrative never tries to seriously tackle the situation in which you find yourself. At the same time, Babylon’s Fall has a downright ugly visual style, missing the mark on what it’s trying to do. It goes for an oil painting aesthetic, but unfortunately, it makes Babylon’s Fall muddy and unfocused. This is coupled with atrocious character models that look like they were designed for a mobile game, rather than one for console. I admire the idea of making a game that looks like a moving oil painting, but it’s almost unbelievable how much of a misfire it is here. The abysmal character creator does nothing to help things along. It provides some of the worst options I’ve seen in a while. In particular, there are very few options for skin tone, providing practically nothing for players that want to create characters of color. The same can be said for combat in Babylon’s Fall , which simply lacks the feeling and flair for which Platinum is so well known. You have two slots to equip weapons, and your Gideon Coffin lets you equip two more into slots that let you summon ethereal weapons. Your Gideon Coffin weapons are tied to a gauge that slowly replenishes and builds up faster if you use basic attacks. Your only defensive option is a dodge that moves you a short distance, and if timed perfectly has a bit of a slowdown effect. There’s decent variation between each of the weapons, and the ethereal versions provide some nice visual flair alongside extra ways to pad out your combat repertoire. The real problem, however, is that Babylon’s Fall seldom gives you interesting combat encounters. Each mission strings together combat encounters with a bit of platforming or the occasional environmental hazard. Battles are largely rinse-and-repeat affairs that have you hitting an enemy with a combo, dodging their attack, and then doing the same thing over again. It’s sad to see Babylon’s Fall’s combat stutter, as Platinum has created some of the most dynamic combat systems out there, like the slicing-and-dicing of Metal Gear Rising or the brilliant dual-character system of Astral Chain . The biggest problem is there’s no special spark at the system’s center, and the idea of the Gideon Coffin is never realized fully. Combat is just one example of a larger problem with Babylon’s Fall , with how formulaic and repetitive it feels. There’s a big emphasis on completing daily missions and battle pass challenges to gain currency, cosmetics, and equipment. Of course, there’s quite a bit of grinding inherently involved in all that, and the dull mission design doesn’t help when you’re playing mission after mission. If there’s any singular highlight from my time with Babylon’s Fall , it’s the soundtrack. In terms of music, at least, the game matches the quality of your usual Square Enix fantasy game fare, with a nice mix of simple catchy tunes and epic orchestral tracks, especially the main theme. Babylon’s Fall Review: The Bottom Line Pros Strong soundtrack that has some memorable orchestral themes. Weapon options allow for some good variation. Cons Combat grows repetitive quickly. Absolutely terrible visual design and aesthetic. Mission and overall gameplay loop are incredibly repetitive. Story fails to deliver on any interesting themes it sets up. Babylon’s Fall is a strong contender for the most disappointing title ever released by Platinum Games. Live service games survive on players sticking with the experience for months — sometimes years — but at the moment, there’s no good reason to stick with Babylon’s Fall . The aesthetic choices are baffling, and the gameplay design grows dull quickly. It’s possible Babylon’s Fall could turn into something promising — someday — but it’s going to require nothing short of a complete overhaul. [Note: Square Enix provided the copy of Babylon’s Fall used for this review.] Post Tag: action rpg multiplayer 4 Babylon’s Fall Review: Falling Short Babylon's Fall is a baffling game that lacks any distinct vision, both in terms of gameplay and artistic design. GameSkinny is supported by our audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn a small affiliate commission. Learn more about our Affiliate Policy Join The Conversation related content Category: Reviews Greedfall 2 Early Access Review: Off to a Strong Start Melissa Sarnowski Melissa Sarnowski Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Category: Reviews Star Wars Outlaws Review — Not too Forceful John Schutt John Schutt Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Category: Reviews Disney Epic Mickey Rebrushed Review: A Magical Makeover Rowan Jones Rowan Jones Category: Reviews Frostpunk 2 Review: A Utilitarian Nightmare Hristijan Pavlovski Hristijan Pavlovski Category: Reviews The Plucky Squire Review: A Charming Storybook Adventure Austin Manchester Austin Manchester related content Category: Reviews Greedfall 2 Early Access Review: Off to a Strong Start Melissa Sarnowski Melissa Sarnowski Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Category: Reviews Star Wars Outlaws Review — Not too Forceful John Schutt John Schutt Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Category: Reviews Disney Epic Mickey Rebrushed Review: A Magical Makeover Rowan Jones Rowan Jones Category: Reviews Frostpunk 2 Review: A Utilitarian Nightmare Hristijan Pavlovski Hristijan Pavlovski Category: Reviews The Plucky Squire Review: A Charming Storybook Adventure Austin Manchester Austin Manchester related content Category: Reviews Greedfall 2 Early Access Review: Off to a Strong Start Melissa Sarnowski Melissa Sarnowski Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Rating: 7 Category: Reviews Star Wars Outlaws Review — Not too Forceful John Schutt John Schutt Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Rating: 9 Category: Reviews Disney Epic Mickey Rebrushed Review: A Magical Makeover Rowan Jones Rowan Jones Category: Reviews Frostpunk 2 Review: A Utilitarian Nightmare Hristijan Pavlovski Hristijan Pavlovski Category: Reviews The Plucky Squire Review: A Charming Storybook Adventure Austin Manchester Austin Manchester Related Content Category: Reviews Greedfall 2 Early Access Review: Off to a Strong Start Melissa Sarnowski Melissa Sarnowski Rating: 7 Category: Reviews Star Wars Outlaws Review — Not too Forceful John Schutt John Schutt Rating: 9 Category: Reviews Disney Epic Mickey Rebrushed Review: A Magical Makeover Rowan Jones Rowan Jones Category: Reviews Frostpunk 2 Review: A Utilitarian Nightmare Hristijan Pavlovski Hristijan Pavlovski Category: Reviews The Plucky Squire Review: A Charming Storybook Adventure Austin Manchester Austin Manchester Author Close Hayes Madsen False Written by gamers, for gamers. rss instagram twitter facebook youtube About Terms of Service Privacy Policy Terms of Service 2025, Game Skinny Powered by GAMURS Group