Babylon's Fall Review: Intense Combat That Lacks Variety [UPDATED] Screen Rant Menu Sign in now Close Movies Submenu Movie Features Movie News Movie Reviews Movie Lists Movie Trailers TV Submenu TV Features TV News TV Reviews TV Lists Reality TV Submenu Reality TV Features Reality TV News Reality TV Lists Gaming Submenu Game Features Game News Game Guides Game Reviews Game Lists Comics Submenu Comic Features Comic News Comic Reviews Comic Lists Anime Submenu Anime Features Anime News Anime Lists Music Submenu Music Features Music Lists WWE Submenu WWE News WWE Features WWE Lists Videos Threads More Submenu Lists Interviews Podcasts Sign in Newsletter SR Exclusives Oscars 2025 Star Wars Marvel DC Star Trek Best on Streaming Close Babylon's Fall Review: Intense Combat That Lacks Variety [UPDATED] PC Games By Jamie Russo Published Mar 1, 2022 Follow Followed Like Link copied to clipboard PC Games Related Ark: Survival Ascended Astraeos Map Size Compared to Ragnarok Should You Kill Sapadal Or Free Them In Avowed? Baldur's Gate 3's 10 Best Builds To Clear Honour Mode Sign in to your ScreenRant account Developed by PlatinumGames and published by Square Enix, Babylon's Fall is an action RPG that focuses on stylish combat. The premise of the campaign in Babylon's Fall is to move through each Cloister of the tower alongside a group of fighters to reach the top while eliminating threats along the way. Although there's some variety in enemies and environments, a lot of Babylon's Fall feels the same, making it a bit repetitive over time. In the opening sequence of Babylon's Fall , a Gideon Coffin is attached to each potential Sentinel. This powerful item hones Sentinel abilities, but it can also change or kill the host if they aren't strong enough. Gideon Coffins allow Sentinels to perform spectral attacks using various weapons including a heavy-hitting hammer or quick-slashing sword. There are a few different weapon types to choose from, and each one can be equipped to perform light, heavy, or spectral attacks. Related: Eastward Review: This Engrossing Indie Action-RPG is a Knockout There are three Sentinel factions to choose from at the start of Babylon's Fall . Huysian Sentinels start with a sword, Agavian Sentinels have a hammer, and a bow is the weapon of choice for the Geleilion faction. Although each faction has a set starting weapon, all three Sentinel types can use any of the available weapons in the game. After choosing a faction, there are a few character customization options such as hairstyle and color or body paint. The customizations are initially limited, but more options can be unlocked later in Babylon's Fall . Combat is the main focus in Babylon's Fall as there isn't much else to the game than fighting hordes of enemies through similarly laid out levels. Each quest in the story, aside from boss levels, consists of chapters where the Sentinels will fight waves of enemies and earn a score ranging from Stone to Pure Platinum. In between chapters, there are linear paths with quick platforming challenges. The platforming seems to be a way to break up the constant, and sometimes monotonous, combat sequences. However, with not much of a difference between the layout and environment for each quest, it's hard for the campaign in Babylon's Fall to be anything other than repetitive action. There's a good variety of enemies even in the first few hours of Babylon's Fall , but there isn't much time to figure out how they move or what the best weapons to counter them are. Due to constant combat encounters and frequently changing enemies, it's likely there will be a fair amount of trial-and-error to figuring out the best strategies, otherwise, combat feels like a long sequence of button-mashing for the sake of progression. Weapons can be changed at the Sentinel Force HQ, but the only way to test weapon combinations is by starting a quest, which can cause some backtracking or quest abandonment if the loadout choice is ineffective. There are more opportunities for strategic planning after the first few Cloisters in Babylon's Fall . Once the Volcanic Cloister is unlocked, enemies will be susceptible to elemental damage, so preparing the proper loadout becomes much more significant. The problem with using elemental damage comes with the inability to craft anything at this point in the game. Random drops and inventory to buy at the exchange make it difficult to obtain a weapon that's both a high-ranking power level and deals the correct elemental damage. There may be some grinding necessary for those that want to take advantage of enemy weaknesses after reaching the Volcanic Cloister. There's also a Battle Pass included in Babylon's Fall , but progression through each tier is extremely slow. Most of the rewards are cosmetic, and the items that can be obtained are more easily gotten from completing quests, missions, or orders. Missions and orders do offer a few unique and specific challenges, but the only way to complete them is to keep replaying levels. While missions and orders give more materials for crafting and enhancing, they require just as much grinding as gear hunting or any other aspect of the game. Babylon's Fall is little more than a string of indiscernible combat encounters with a few big boss fights. The oil-paint art style of the game makes it difficult to distinguish anything in combat, especially in the darker levels. Unfortunately, the rewards of completing Babylon's Fall aren't worth the effort of going through the unbearably repetitive gameplay. Overall, Babylon's Fal l is a combat-focused game with a lot of unvaried action that quickly gets old. Next: Lost Ark Review: Great Combat in an Accessible F2P MMO Babylon's Fall is available now for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, and PC. Screen Rant was provided a digital PlayStation 5 download code for the purpose of this review. Gaming Game Reviews 2 star games Follow Followed Like Share Facebook X LinkedIn Reddit Flipboard Copy link Email Close Popular Pokémon GO - Catch Mastery: Archen Event Guide Pokémon GO The Pokémon Go Archen Catch Mastery event is the perfect time to complete some research tasks and increase your odds at encountering a shiny. Posts By Kaitlyn Peterson 1 day ago After Reading What Nomura Thinks About Cloud Loving Tifa Or Aerith, I Totally Agree With Him Posts 13 By Lee D'Amato 3 days ago "Pokémon Is Really Trying To Bankrupt Me This Year": Pokémon TCG's Journey Together Full Card List Appears Online Posts By Christian Hoffer 2 days ago "They Should Allow Us To Remove It": Disney Dreamlight Valley Fans Share Tips For Hiding Unsightly Mandatory Decoration Posts 5 By Yuliya Geikhman 5 days ago 10 Biggest Differences Between MLB The Show 25 & The Show 24 Posts By Jorge A. Aguilar "Aggy" 2 days ago 10 Most Evil Choices In Baldur's Gate 3 Posts By Sarah-Jane Simpson 1 day ago Recommended Why Did Hugo Ramirez Leave CSI: Vegas After Just 1 Season? Mel Rodriguez's Exit Explained CSI: Vegas After just 1 season, Mel Rodriguez left the role of Hugo Ramirez in CSI: Vegas, but the reason behind his exit is more mysterious than you’d think. Posts 59 minutes ago 11 MCU Characters Who Actually Still Wear Masks Marvel Cinematic Universe The Marvel Cinematic Universe finds lots of ways for its stars to show their faces, but there are still plenty of heroes who continue to wear masks. Posts 49 minutes ago Netflix Just Released The Perfect Thriller Show For Harlan Coben Fans, Just 2 Months After His Last Hit Series Another Harlan Coben book has been adapted into a TV show and it was released on Netflix just two months after his last hit TV show, Missing You. Posts 1 44 minutes ago Lindsay Lohan’s Reunion For 27-Year-Old Classic Rom-Com Remake Is Finally Happening In Her Sequel To Another Great Disney Movie Freakier Friday Lindsay Lohan will star in the upcoming sequel, Freakier Friday. The movie will feature one exciting reunion from another classic 27-year-old film. Posts 14 minutes ago 10 A-List Actors Who Are Least Likely To Join The MCU Marvel Cinematic Universe Some A-list Hollywood actors have spoken out against Marvel movies, and some simply aren't interested in ever joining superhero films like the MCU's. Posts 2 hours ago The Marvel Universe Is About to Shake Up As Doctor Doom Makes a Mistake He Can't Undo Doctor Doom Doctor Doom is not prone to make too many mistakes, but his usurping of the Strange Academy is one, and it may prove to be his ultimate undoing. Posts 2 hours ago Trending Now Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth's Best Side Quest May Also Be Its Worst Honkai: Star Rail 3.2 Banner Leaks Have Been Updated With A Disappointing Character Swap Space Marine 2's Balance Changes Are Great, But I'm Most Excited For The New Customization Options Join Our Team Our Audience About Us Press & Events Review Policy Media Coverage Contact Us Follow Us Advertising Careers Terms Privacy Policies ScreenRant is part of the Valnet Publishing Group Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.